---
layout: post
title: Parenting
---
June 26	Parenting

Spent the last 3 days talking about education. Jonathan Shapiro more or less said, it’s our job as adults to look into the past and see what matters, extract it, and mentor our children in applying those values to their current situation, which we may not - probably do not - fully understand.  And if I had to identify my main failing as a parent, it would be this. Largely because, I think, I’ve been trying to figure out what those values are as they apply to me, because the traditional vehicles for transferring that information - church and family - did not do it for me. In the first instance, I was born Catholic, but walked out at a fairly early age, with little resistance from my parents. My father remained a faithful Catholic, more or less, to his death, though the Church’s reaction to my sister marrying a Jew shook his loyalty to the institution, which is different from his faith. My mother, I don’t think, was ever particularly religious one way or another.

Family was another issue, but neither of these prevented me from doing my own search, whether it be for another institution, or through philosophy or history or even art - something transcendent which gives meaning and structure to a life - and applying it to myself and to my kids. In the end, I suppose, I did so by the very fact of my life: they watched me go to work every day, they watched me relate to the women in my life, experienced how I treated them and ultimately of course, that is much more powerful than any institution. But did I give my kids explicit instruction on how to live a moral life, or even why it is necessary to do so? No. Honestly, I don’t think I gave them explicit instruction in much of anything: never taught them how to tie different knots or to sail or balance a checkbook or unsnap a bra. (I’m still struggling with that one.) I tried to teach my oldest how to ride a bike and it was a disaster, with him crying and me frustrated. I felt chagrined and hurt and confused when a week later he showed me that he could ride, and that it was a neighbor who taught him. I realized of course that this was my own shortcoming. I wonder if it scared me away from teaching them other things; that instead of learning from the situation and coming back at it with more patience and compassion, I instead used it as an excuse not to try, to back off into the relative safety of a removed parent. If I have regrets, and I have many, it’s that emotional distance which, ironically and predictably, I struggle to close now that they are so far away. 
